# Explain output

Let us continue with the `NA18740` example from
[Getting Start](https://svm-zhang.github.io/mhcflow/getting_start/). In this
part of the document, we explain in greater detail the outputs generated by
`mhcflow`.


``` { .sh }
.
├─ NA18740_class1/
│  ├─ finalizer/
│  ├─ fisher/
│  ├─ realigner/
│  └─ typer/
```

!!! note
    By default, `mhcflow` removes all intermediate files. The snapshot
    of each directories shown below contains only the "final" files.
    For details about the intermediate files that have been removed, please
    refer to `intermediate` and `intermediate_aux` sections in the
    `file manifests` files under each folder.

## fisher/

A snapshot of the `fisher/` directory is shown below:


``` { .sh }
NA18740_class1
├─ fisher/
│  ├─ log/
│  ├─ NA18740.fisher.chr6.idx
│  ├─ NA18740.fisher.hla_bed.idx
│  ├─ NA18740.fisher.unplaced.idx
│  ├─ NA18740.fisher.idx.final.tsv
│  ├─ NA18740.fisher.file_manifest.json
│  ├─ NA18740.dumper.file_manifest.json
```

- `NA18740.fisher.idx.final.tsv`: This file contains the final set of fished
    read IDs. It is the union of the following three files:
    - `NA18740.fisher.chr6.idx`: Contains reads mapped to chromosome 6 in which
    matches of Kmer sequences are found.
    - `NA18740.fisher.chr6.idx`: Similar as above but from unplaced reads.
    - `NA18740.fisher.hla_bed.idx`: Contains reads mapped to the HLA regions
    defined in the BED file.
- `NA18740.fisher.file_manifest.json`: The file manifest for the `fisher`
    component in JSON format, which provides detailed information about:
    - input files
    - output files
    - Auxiliary files, such as `.log` and `.done` files
    - intermediate and intermediate auxiliary files.
- `NA18740.dumper.file_manifest.json`: The file manifest for the `dumper` step
    inside the `fisher` component. 

!!! note
    For more details on file manifests and the files under `log/` directory,
    please refer to the dedicated page here.


## realigner/

The `realigner/` directory contains realignments of reads against the HLA
reference sequence in BAM format.

``` { .sh }
NA18740_class1
├─ realigner/
│  ├─ log/
│  ├─ NA18740.hla.realn.bam
│  ├─ NA18740.hla.realn.bam.bai
│  ├─ NA18740.realigner.file_manifest.json
```

- `NA18740.hla.realn.bam`: This file contains the realignment result and
    also serves as the input to the `typer` component. Realignments are
    sorted by coordinates and indexed.
- `NA18740.realigner.file_manifest.json`: The JSON file is the file manifest
    for the `realigner` component.

## typer/

All typing results are stored in the `typer/` directory, as shown below.
For a detailed explanation of each file, please refer to the
[mhctyper documentation](https://svm-zhang.github.io/mhctyper/#output-explain).

``` { .sh }
NA18740_class1
├─ typer/
│  ├─ NA18740.a1.tsv
│  ├─ NA18740.a2.tsv
│  ├─ NA18740.hlatyping.res.tsv
```

## finalizer/

The `finalizer/` directory contains the sample-level HLA reference and
the corresponding realignment, which are convenient for downstream analyses
such as [LOH detection](https://svm-zhang.github.io/mhcflow/loh/).

``` { .sh }
NA18740_class1
├─ finalizer/
│  ├─ log/
│  ├─ NA18740.hla.fasta
│  ├─ NA18740.hla.nix
│  ├─ NA18740.hla.realn.bam
│  ├─ NA18740.hla.realn.bam.bai
│  ├─ NA18740.realigner.file_manifest.json
│  ├─ NA18740.finalizer.file_manifest.json
```

- `NA18740.hla.fasta`: The sample-level HLA reference with typed alleles by
    the `typer` component.
- `NA18740.hla.nix`: The accompanying index for the sample-level HLA reference,
    produced by `novoindex`.

!!! note
    In the context of a paired normal and tumor
    samples, "sample-level" HLA reference implies a reference specific to the
    subject or individual.

- `NA18740.hla.realn.bam`: The realignment file, generated by aligning fished
    reads against the alleles included in the sample-level reference.

!!! note
    Although the file `NA18740.hla.realn.bam` appears in both the `finalizer` and
    `realigner/` directories, they contains different set of MHC alleles. 
    The BAM file in the `finalizer/` directory includes only the alleles
    typed by the `typer` component, whereas the one in the `realigner/`
    directory contains a broader set of MHC alleles.

